I'm gonna give you the secret to working
well with us
it's simple understand how we think and
then think like us these children are
our friends and we trust them because
they learned how to handle us
respectfully learn from them and you
will be on your way to having a fun and
enjoyable relationship with alpacas if
you want a good relationship you must be
fun safe confident and kind a
relationship develops between the alpaca
and the handler don't run up to the
apakah because it'll scare and it won't
trust you don't scream at the alpaca if
it's not doing something that you want
you have to be patient don't be boring
with your apakah make sure you're having
fun too because if you don't have fun
your alpaca doesn't have fun remember we
alpacas are watching you humans all the
time if we are going to let go of our
instinct to run struggle against you or
freeze and quit then we must feel safe
with you to catch an alpaca you will
need to herd the Opaka into a small pen
you heard the old Packer with poles
sticks or arms spread out on either side
of you to put pressure on the alpaca and
move it toward and into the pen move
slowly to adjust your body position if
you see do PACA is thinking about
bolting once in the pen you approach
your alpaca side to side you then put
the arm closest to the alpaca gently
around the alpacas neck you've now
caught your alpaca and are ready to
halter people who chase our corner us
and grab us around the neck are not
trustworthy or safe to be around to
halter your alpaca first stand on the
left side next hold the halter so that
the nose piece is open then carefully
slide the halter over the nose also make
sure that the halter fits correctly the
halter should be buckled tightly close
to the eyes and above the nose after you
are done with all the steps you can lead
it this is a scary feeling we get when
our halter slides off the bone part of
our nose and blocks out our breathing
one cero pakka is properly haltered you
are ready to lead
when you're leading your alpaca you
should always be on the left side of the
alpaca with your body faced forward your
hands should be in the middle of the
lead line when you're old Pekka is
standing calmly you can take a few steps
forward if your Opaka does not follow
you gently tug on the rope and then
release never pull or drag your alpaca
once you're a packer can walk on a lead
you can then begin training for
obstacles and handling how a gentle hand
please don't hang on the lead and pull
my head and give me more than one of
your arms legs between us ah that's nice
in addition to lead training you can
train your AB alpacas with a variety of
obstacles to help them be comfortable in
a variety of situations so many
obstacles can be leading the apakah
across a tarp leading the alpaca under a
clothesline with objects dangling lead
them over a tipping board weaving
through cones going over a bridge
stepping in and out of tires going up
stairs
all of these can expose your package to
a variety of experiences as well as
teaching them to trust you training
helps for when the vet comes when you're
traveling showing and everyday
interactions because the alpacas are
easier and more enjoyable to work with
once your experience with working with
your alpaca it can be fun to try
competing at a show like most creatures
we want to feel safe and enjoy our lives
too
I feel so proud and confident when I
figure out how to do the obstacle if you
worked with me in a respectful light I
will remember the special times with you
and trust other humans and I will look
forward next time we play together